All right let's try this example out.
Pretty simple we have a resistor over here.
Let's calculate the value of the resistance.
So first of all it's a four band.
And notice the lines are more closely spaced at the top.
So we're going to read in this direction down here.
So the first one we get is a Brown Brown has a digit of 1 the first digit should be 1.
Then we have green the second digit should be five.
Then we have orange.
OK so again now again it's only four bands.
So that means the third band tells you the multiplier.
And again that's the thousand.
So this is 15 Kila.
And then plus or minus.
Then we get a silver down here the silver for the tolerance is written over here with plus or minus
10 percent 10 percent.
So really I could write this as 15000 ohms plus or minus 1500.
That's 10 percent of 15000.
That would be the value of this resistance here.
Pretty straightforward.
Just needs a bit of practice.